# Animal-Scientific-Names-using-SQLite3

The result is the scientific name of whatever common name of an animal is entered into the command line.  If the common name of the animal does not match what is in the taxa.db3 database, then the output will be that the scientific name could not be found for that organism.  In order for the program to recognize an organism with two names for its input common name, the user must put quotes around these words.

The program imports SQLite3 to be able to connect to the taxa.db3 database.  The program checks if the common name of an animal is mentioned in the command line.  If it is, the program continues; if it doesn't, the program exits.  The cursor object c to later execute the query and get the results.  The query uses SQL to select the scientific name from the database.  Then the query joins the name table twice, using the tax_id to match records between the names.  The results are then filters so that com.name matches the user's common name and sci.name_class is the scientific name.  This limits the query to only return one result.  The SQL query is then executed with the user's common name as a parameter.  The program initialized found as False to track whether or not a scientific name is found.  It loops through the query's results and assigns the scientific name to its respective variable and prints it.  It then sets found to True and exits the loop after processing the first result.  If no results were found in the query and found remains False, the program prints a message indicating no scientific name was found.
